=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Text::Levenshtein::XS - Calculate edit distance based on insertion, deletion, substitution, and transposition

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Text::Levenshtein::XS qw/distance/;

    print distance('Neil','Niel');
    # prints 2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Returns the number of edits (insert,delete,substitute) required to turn the source string into the target string. XS implementation (requires a C compiler). Works correctly with utf8.

    use Text::Levenshtein::XS qw/distance/;
    use utf8;

    distance('ⓕⓞⓤⓡ','ⓕⓤⓞⓡ'), 
    # prints 2

=for Pod::Coverage dl_load_flags xs_distance

=head1 METHODS

=head2 distance

=over 4

=item Arguments: $source_text, $target_text, (optional) $max_distance

=item Return Value: Int $edit_distance || undef (if max_distance is exceeded)

=back

Returns: int that represents the edit distance between the two argument, or undef if $max_distance threshold is exceeded.

Takes the edit distance between a source and target string using XS 2 vector implementation.

    use Text::Levenshtein::XS qw/distance/;
    print distance('Neil','Niel');
    # prints 2

Stops calculations and returns undef if $max_distance is set, non-zero (0 = no limit), and the algorithm has determined the final distance will be greater than $max_distance.

    my $distance = distance('Neil','Niel',1);
    print (defined $distance) ? $distance : "Exceeded max distance";
    # prints "Exceeded max distance"

=head1 NOTES

Drop in replacement for L<Text::LevenshteinXS>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<Text::Levenshtein::Damerau>

=item * L<Text::Levenshtein::Damerau::PP>

=item * L<Text::Levenshtein::Damerau::XS>

=item * L<Text::Fuzzy>

=item * L<Text::Levenshtein::Flexible>

=back

=head1 REPOSITORY

L<https://github.com/ugexe/Text--Levenshtein--XS>

=head1 BUGS

Please report bugs to:

L<https://github.com/ugexe/Text--Levenshtein--XS/issues>

=head1 AVAILABILITY

The project homepage is L<https://github.com/SineSwiper/Text--Levenshtein--XS>.

The latest version of this module is available from the Comprehensive Perl
Archive Network (CPAN). Visit L<http://www.perl.com/CPAN/> to find a CPAN
site near you, or see L<https://metacpan.org/module/Text::Levenshtein::XS/>.

=for :stopwords cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee diff irc mailto metadata placeholders metacpan

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Internet Relay Chat

You can get live help by using IRC ( Internet Relay Chat ). If you don't know what IRC is,
please read this excellent guide: L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat>. Please
be courteous and patient when talking to us, as we might be busy or sleeping! You can join
those networks/channels and get help:

=over 4

=item *

irc.perl.org

You can connect to the server at 'irc.perl.org' and talk to this person for help: SineSwiper.

=back

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests via L<https://github.com/SineSwiper/Text--Levenshtein--XS/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

ugexe <ugexe@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Nick ugexe

=over 4

=item *

Nick <nlogan@gmail.com>

=item *

ugexe <nlogan@gmail.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Nick Logan.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
